.TH "include/libirc_options.h" 3 "12 Jun 2012" "Bot" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
include/libirc_options.h \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBLIBIRC_OPTION_DEBUG\fP   (1 << 1)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBLIBIRC_OPTION_STRIPNICKS\fP   (1 << 2)"
.br
.RI "\fIallows to strip origins automatically. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBLIBIRC_OPTION_SSL_NO_VERIFY\fP   (1 << 3)"
.br
.RI "\fIDisables the certificate verification for SSL connections. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define LIBIRC_OPTION_DEBUG   (1 << 1)"
.PP
enables additional debug output 
.SS "#define LIBIRC_OPTION_SSL_NO_VERIFY   (1 << 3)"
.PP
Disables the certificate verification for SSL connections. 
.PP
By default the SSL connection authenticy is ensured by verifying that the certificate presented by the server is signed by a known trusted certificate authority. Since those typically cost money, some IRC servers use the self-signed certificates. They provide the benefits of the SSL connection but since they are not signed by the Certificate Authority, their authencity cannot be verified. This option, if set, disables the certificate verification - the library will accept any certificate presented by the server.
.PP
This option must be set before the irc_connect function is called. 
.SS "#define LIBIRC_OPTION_STRIPNICKS   (1 << 2)"
.PP
allows to strip origins automatically. 
.PP
For every IRC server event, the event origin is sent in standard form: nick!host@ircserver, i.e. like tim!home@irc.freenet.org. Such origins can not be used in IRC commands, and need to be stripped (i.e. host and server part should be cut off) before using. This can be done either explicitly, by calling \fBirc_target_get_nick()\fP, or implicitly for all the events - by setting this option with \fBirc_option_set()\fP. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Bot from the source code.
